World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates

The World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates was initiated by Mikhail Gorbachev\ref{Mikhail_Gorbachev} in the 90s, as a forum in which the Nobel Peace Laureates and the Peace Laureate Organizations could come together to address global issues with a view to encourage and support peace and human well being in the world. Its Permanent Secretariat is an independent, non-profit, ECOSOC non-governmental organization, based in Rome, operating on a permanent basis. A permanent staff, mainly composed of volunteers, promotes the work of the Nobel Peace Prize Winners and organizes the World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates on a yearly basis. To date, the Permanent Secretariat has organized 16 Summits, the most recent having been held in February 2017 in the city of Bogota, Colombia. This was the first time that the Summit took place in Latin America.

With the objective of fostering a culture of peace for future generations in Latin America and the Caribbean, the Secretariat is seeking to develop an educational campaign entitled “Peace is Possible”. Characteristics are as follows:

Flagship campaign: “La Paz es Posible”

Scope: Youth (15–24 years old) of Latin America and the Caribbean

Main Objective: To educate youth about the legacy of the Nobel Peace Laureates and Peace laureate organizations and to foster leadership for peace among youth.

Approach: Inspirational and knowledge sharing – By bringing to life the struggles and stories of each of the laureates, the campaign seeks to inspire youth with the examples of courage and non-violence set by the laureates with a message of hope and possibility. Also, by introducing the work of the laureate organizations and the backgrounds of each of the laureates, the campaign will share knowledge about institutional mandates, and the geo-political contexts in which peace has thrived.

The summits have been hosted in various countries:

Every year, during the World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates, the Nobel laureates honour with the Peace Summit Award the men or women of peace chosen from personalities from the world of culture and entertainment who have stood up for human rights and for the spread of the principles of Peace and Solidarity in the world and have made an outstanding contribution to international social justice and peace. Before 2006, it was known as the Man of Peace Award\ref{Man_of_Peace}.



